db/README.md, before:

# Database Setup

To create the database in PostgreSQL, run:

```
psql < schema.sql
```

This implies that you have PostgreSQL configured to trust the currently logged in user.
It will create the database using your username and will allow you to connect to it
without supplying a password. This is convenient for development.

If you want to create a separate user (pocolab in this example)for this database
(which is better for production), and if you are running Ubuntu or similar, here are
the steps to do it, assuming you've installed PostgreSQL in the "standard" way where
there is a PostgreSQL superuser named postgres and a system user called postgres and
peer authentication is configured, etc.

```
sudo -u postgres createuser -SDRP pocolab
sudo -u postgres createdb -O pocolab pocolab
psql -U pocolab < schema.sql
```

There will be quite a few errors in the output if you are creating the tables for the
first time because the SQL is set up to drop existing tables and constraints and
re-create them, but these should be harmless.

Now you should be able to connect to the newly created database with

```
psql -U pocolab
```

# Database Export

The schema.sql file can be created with this command, assuming certain configuration:

```
sudo -u postgres pg_dump -cOs pocolab > schema.sql
```

Commit message:

Add command to use the cuddlychang database, update README, name change.

db/README.md, after:

# Database Setup

These instructions were written specifically to work on Ubuntu, so if you
are on a different OS your mileage may vary.

The instructions assume you have installed postgresql in a standard way, which
includes creating a system user named postgres and a PostgreSQL superuser
also named postgres. It also assumes you have your PostgreSQL pg_hba.conf file
configured something like the example shown below--particularly allowing md5
password authentication for local unix socket users.

\# TYPE     DATABASE     USER     ADDRESS     METHOD
   local    all          postgres             peer
   local    all          all                  md5

For more info about this config file see: http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/auth-pg-hba-conf.html

Assuming all that, you can run this sequence of commands to create a
PostgreSQL user named cuddlychang and a database of the same name owned by that
user. Then you can use the supplied schema.sql file to create the tables, etc
needed for this app.

```
sudo -u postgres createuser -SDRP cuddlychang
sudo -u postgres createdb -O cuddlychang cuddlychang
psql -U cuddlychang < schema.sql
```

There will be quite a few errors in the output if you are creating the tables for the
first time because the SQL is set up to drop existing tables and constraints and
re-create them, but these should be harmless.

Now you should be able to connect to the newly created database with

```
psql -U cuddlychang
```
